.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2023 Lee Garrett <debian@rocketjump.eu>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MVDSV 8 "January 24 2023"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mvdsv \- QuakeWorld-compatible dedicated server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mvdsv
-basedir \fIDIRECTORY\fP
-game \fIDIRECTORY\fP
[-t chroot dir]
[-u user]
[-g group]
[-d]
[-cheats]
[-enablelocalcommand]
[-democache \fISIZE_IN_KB\fP]
[-progtype \fIPROGTYPENUMBER\fP]
[-minmemory]
[-heapsize \fISIZE_IN_KB\fP]
[-mem \fISIZE_IN_MB\fP]
[-ip \fIIPV4_ADDRESS\fP]
[-port \fIUDP_PORT\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B mvdsv
command.
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBmvdsv\fP (multi-view demo server) is a QuakeWorld-compatible dedicated
server.

On Debian, it currently requires a package "quake-registered" that can be generated
from copy of Quake I via game-data-packager(6).
.SH OPTIONS
mvdsv does not follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes. Most notably, it does not have a --help
command.
.TP
[unix specific parameters]
.TP
.B -t \fIDIRECTORY\fP
chroot to \fIDIRECTORY\fP
.TP
.B -u \fIUSER\fP
setuid to \fIUSER\fP
.TP
.B -g \fIGROUP\fP
setguid to \fIGROUP\fP
.TP
.B -d
daemonize to background (not recommended when run from systemd unit)
.TP
[common parameters]
.TP
.B -basedir \fIBASEDIR\fP
The "base directory" is the path to the filesystem directory holding the quake
game directories (id1/pak0.pak, id1/pak1.pak). The base directory is only used
during filesystem initialization. Defaults to current directory when not set.
Example:
mvdsv -basedir /usr/share/games/quake
.TP
.B -game \fIGAMEDIR\fP 
The "game directory" is the first tree on the search path and directory that all
generated files (savegames, screenshots, demos, config files) will be saved to.
This directory is relative to the base directory.
.TP
.B +gamedir \fIGAMEDIR\fP
Identical to "-game". However, when both are set, "-game" takes precedence.
.TP
.B -ip \fIIPV4_ADDRESS\fP
Bind to the network interface with this IPv4 address, instead of all interfaces.
Currently only IPv4 addresses are supported. IPv6 addresses will silently fail.
.TP
.B -port \fIUDP_PORT\fP
Listen on UDP port number \fIPORT\fP for QuakeWorld clients to connect. Defaults
to 27500.
.TP
.B -cheats
Enable cheats on this server. Equivalent to setting "sv_cheats 1" in the config.
This makes a set of cheat commands available on the QuakeWorld client:
.br
`god` will make the player invulnerable.
.br
`noclip` allows the player to clip through walls.
.br
`fly` allows the player to fly, but not clip through walls.
.br
`give <alphanum> [amount]` will give the player items.
.br
2 = shotgun
.br
3 = super shotgun
.br
4 = nailgun
.br
5 = super nailgun
.br
6 = grenade launcher
.br
7 = rocket launcher
.br
8 = lightning gun
.br
s = shotgun ammo
.br
n = nailgun ammo
.br
r = rocket ammo
.br
h = health
.br
c = cells ammo
.TP
.B -enablelocalcommand
Allow executing arbitrary shell code from within the server with "localcommand
\fICMD\fP". VERY DANGEROUS. Only enable this if you know what you are doing.
.TP
.B -democache \fISIZE_IN_KB\fP
Set the demo cache size in KB. Will default to 16 MiB if set below that value.
.TP
.B -progtype \fPPROGTYPENUMBER\fP
Define the type of the qwprogs. This setting is usually not needed, as it is
autodetected.
.RS 11
.br
0 = pr1 (qwprogs.dat etc)
.br
1 = native (.so/.dll)
.br
2 = q3vm (.qvm)
.br
3 = q3vm (.qvm) with JIT
.RE
.TP
.B -minmemory
Set memory to 0x550000 bytes (deprecated, use -mem).
.TP
.B -heapsize \fISIZE_IN_KB\fP
Allocate fixed amount of memory in KiB (deprecated, use -mem).
.TP
.B -mem \fISIZE_IN_MB\fP
Allocate fixed amount of memory in Mi. Overrides -heapsize and -minmemory.
Defaults to 32 MiB.
.TP
.B +exec \fIMYSERVER.CFG\fP
execute all server commands configured in the file \fIMYSERVER.CFG\fP. 

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Lee Garrett <debian@rocketjump.eu>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mvdsv.cfg (1),
.br
https://github.com/QW-Group/mvdsv
